# colocgraph
 A Python tool to process colocalization data from .txt files generated by ZEISS imaging instruments. Quickly visualize and analyze immunofluorescence colocalization for biological research.
 
## Features
- Processes `.txt` files output by ZEISS instruments with immunofluorescence colocalization data.
- Flexible plotting of colocalization intensities with customizable colors and axis ordering.
- Saves plots as `.png` or `.svg` for easy sharing and integration into reports.

## Requirements
- Python 3.6+
- `pandas`
- `matplotlib`

## Installation
1. Clone this repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/colocgraph.git
    ```
2. Install required packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage

### Command-Line Usage
To process and plot data, run the script from the command line with the following options:

```bash
python colocgraph.py <input_dir> [options]
```
- `<input_dir>`: Path to the input directory.

### Optional Arguments
- `--image_data_type`: Data type used to store plots (default: `.svg`).
- `--order`: Order, in which columns should be plotted (default: `321`).
- `--width`: Width of the plot (default: `4`).
- `--height`: Height of the plot (default: `2`).
- `--font_size`: Font size for labels and legend (default: `9`).
- `--legend`: Option for printing a legend (default: `False`).
- `--x_label`: x label of the plots (default: `None`).
- `--y_label`: y label of the plots (default: `None`).

## How It Works
- The script first loads the .txt data, which includes distance and intensity columns for various channels.
- Users can specify the order of channels for plotting, allowing customization of which data is prioritized visually.
- The plot is generated with specific color coding for each channel and can be saved in multiple formats (`.png`, `.svg`).

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
